input texinfo
@setfilename manual
@settitle 3DViewer v2.0
@documentencoding UTF-8

@copying
Copyright © 2022 by locie
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Short guide to using the 3DViewer.
@vskip 
@insertcopying
@author locie
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top 3DViewer v2.0
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Basic information:: This section provides general information about the operation of 3D_Viewer
* Interface:: This section provides information about the basic user interface
* Settings:: This section provides information about the settings interface
* Record:: This section provides information about recording screenshots and gif animations
* Texture:: This section provides information about texturing model and light parameters
@end menu

@node Basic information
@chapter Basic information

3D_Viewer is developed in the C++ programming language using QT Creator version 6.2. @*
Opengl technology is used to render the models. @*
The program is designed to view 3D models in a wireframe viewer (3D Viewer).  @*
Models are loaded from .obj files and can be viewed on the screen with the ability to rotate, scale and move.

@node Interface
@chapter Interface

@enumerate
@item
Open file: @*
Click the "Open File" button to open the file. @*
Select the file with the .obj extension and click "Open". @*
The model will be displayed in the visualization area.
@item
Reset button: @*
The "Reset" button is used to reset the model to its original state.
@item
Affine transformations: @*
You can rotate, move or scale the image by a specified angle. @*
To do this, use the corresponding buttons: "Rotate", "Move", "Scale". @*
In the field on the left you set the angle.
@item
Status bar: @*
The status bar displays information about the loaded model - file name, number of vertices and edges.
@end enumerate

@node Settings
@chapter Settings

@enumerate
@item
In the settings fields it is possible to choose: @*
- projection type @*
- line type, thickness and color @*
- vertex type, thickness and color @*
- background color @*
@item
The button "Save settings" saves the settings to the file /etc/config.ini. @*
@item
The "Load settings" button loads the settings from the file /etc/config.ini. @*
@item
The button "Reset to default" resets the settings to the default values.
@end enumerate

@node Record
@chapter Record

@enumerate
@item
The "Save screenshot" button saves a screenshot of the selected extension (bmp, jpg) to the folder with the project. @*
@item
To record gif animation, click the "Record" button and use the affine transformation buttons, each click will be recorded as a separate frame. @*
If the flag "auto" is set, the model will be automatically rotated 360 degrees on the Y-axis. @*
@item
After creating the frames, click "Save to GIF" and choose a place to save the gif-image.
@end enumerate

@node Texture
@chapter Record

@enumerate
@item
The "Remove Texture" button delete a installing texture from model. @*
@item
The "Add Texture" button add a texture to model. You can choice a *.bmp file and apply in model. @*
@item
You can change type lighting. Three type of view model: with Soft Shading or Flat Shading, or without filing - Wireframe Model.@*
@item
You can save UV-map(Texture) like *.bmp file.@*
@end enumerate


@bye
